Reconfigurable disc trees for visualizing large hierarchical information space.

        We present a new visualization technique, called RDT
(Reconfigurable Disc Tree) which can alleviate the disadvantages of cone
trees significantly for large hierarchies while maintaining its context
of using 3D depth. In RDT, each node is associated with a disc, around
which its children are placed. Using discs instead of cones as the basic
shape in RDT has several advantages: significant reduction of occluded
region, sharp increase in number of displayed nodes, and easy projection
onto plane without visual overlapping. We show that RDT can greatly
enhance user perception by transforming its shapes dynamically in
several ways: (1) disc tree which can significantly reduce the occluded
region by the foreground objects; (2) compact disc tree which can
increase the number of nodes displayed on the screen; and (3) plane disc
tree which can be mapped onto the plane without visual overlapping. We
describe an implementation of our visualization system called VISIT
(Visual Information System for reconfigurable dIsc tree). It provides 2D
and 3D layouts for RDT and various user interface features such as tree
reconfiguration, tree transformation, tree shading, viewing
transformation, animation, selection and browsing which can enhance the
user perception and navigation capabilities. We also evaluate our system
using the following three metrics: percentage of occlusion, density of
displayed nodes on a screen, and number of identifiable nodes