Coordinated graph and scatter-plot views for the visual exploration of microarray time-series data.

Microarrays are relatively new, high-throughput data
acquisition technology for investigating biological phenomena at the
micro-level. One of the more common procedures for microarray
experimentation is that of the microarray time-course experiment. The
product of microarray time-course experiment is time-series data, which
subject to proper analysis has the potential to have significant impact
on the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of diseases. While existing
information visualization techniques go some way to making microarray
time-series data more manageable, requirements analysis has revealed
significant limitations. The main finding was that users were unable to
uncover and quantify common changes in value over a specified
time-period. This paper describes a novel technique that provides this
functionality by allowing the user to visually formulate and modify
measurable queries with separate time-period and condition components.
These visual queries are supported by the combination of a traditional
value against time graph representation of the data with a complementary
scatter-plot representation of a specified time-period. The multiple
views of the visualization are coordinated so that the user can
formulate and modify queries with rapid reversible display of query
results in the traditional value against time graph
format.