Mapping nominal values to numbers for effective visualization.

Data sets with a large number of nominal variables, some with
high cardinality, are becoming increasingly common and need to be
explored. Unfortunately, most existing visual exploration displays are
designed to handle numeric variables only. When importing data sets with
nominal values into such visualization tools, most solutions to date are
rather simplistic. Often, techniques that map nominal values to numbers
do not assign order or spacing among the values in a manner that conveys
semantic relationships. Moreover, displays designed for nominal
variables usually cannot handle high cardinality variables well. This
paper addresses the problem of how to display nominal variables in
general-purpose visual exploration tools designed for numeric variables.
Specifically, we investigate (1) how to assign order and spacing among
the nominal values, and (2) how to reduce the number of distinct values
to display. We propose that nominal variables be pre-processed using a
distance-quantification-classing (DQC) approach before being imported
into a visual exploration tool. In the distance step, we identify a set
of independent dimensions that can be used to calculate the distance
between nominal values. In the quantification step, we use the
independent dimensions and the distance information to assign order and
spacing among the nominal values. In the classing step, we use results
from the previous steps to determine which values within a variable are
similar to each other and thus can be grouped together. Each step in the
DQC approach can be accomplished by a variety of techniques. We extended
the XmdvTool package to incorporate this approach. We evaluated our
approach on several data sets using a variety of evaluation
measures.