Conveying shape with texture: an experimental investigation of the impact of texture type on shape categorization judgments.

As visualization researchers, we are interested in gaining a
better understanding of how to effectively use texture to facilitate
shape perception. If we could design the ideal texture pattern to apply
to an arbitrary smoothly curving shape to be most accurately and
effectively perceived, what would the characteristics of that texture
pattern be? In this paper we describe the results of a comprehensive
controlled observer experiment intended to yield insight into that
question. Here, we report the results of a new study comparing the
relative accuracy of observers' judgments of shape type (elliptical,
cylindrical, hyperbolic or flat) and shape orientation (convex, concave,
both, or neither) for local views of boundary masked quadric surface
patches under six different principal direction texture pattern
conditions plus two texture conditions (an isotropic pattern and a
non-principal direction oriented anisotropic pattern), under both
perspective and orthographic projection conditions and from both head-on
and oblique viewpoints. Our results confirm the hypothesis that accurate
shape perception is facilitated to a statistically significantly greater
extent by some principal direction texture patterns than by others.
Specifically, we found that, for both views, under conditions of
perspective projection, participants more often correctly identified the
shape category and the shape orientation when the surface was textured
with the pattern that contained oriented energy along both the first and
second principal directions only than in the case of any other texture
condition. Patterns containing markings following only one of the
principal directions, or containing information along other directions
in addition to the principal directions yielded poorer performance
overall.