Exploring high-D spaces with multiform matrices and small multiples.

We introduce an approach to visual analysis of multivariate
data that integrates several methods from information visualization,
exploratory data analysis (EDA), and geovisualization. The approach
leverages the component-based architecture implemented in GeoVISTA
Studio to construct a flexible, multiview, tightly (but generically)
coordinated, EDA toolkit. This toolkit builds upon traditional ideas
behind both small multiples and scatterplot matrices in three
fundamental ways. First, we develop a general, multiform, bivariate
matrix and a complementary multiform, bivariate small multiple plot in
which different bivariate representation forms can be used in
combination. We demonstrate the flexibility of this approach with
matrices and small multiples that depict multivariate data through
combinations of: scatterplots, bivariate maps, and space-filling
displays. Second, we apply a measure of conditional entropy to (a)
identify variables from a high-dimensional data set that are likely to
display interesting relationships and (b) generate a default order of
these variables in the matrix or small multiple display. Third, we add
conditioning, a kind of dynamic query/filtering in which supplementary
(undisplayed) variables are used to constrain the view onto variables
that are displayed. Conditioning allows the effects of one or more well
understood variables to be removed form the analysis, making
relationships among remaining variables easier to explore. We illustrate
the individual and combined functionality enabled by this approach
through application to analysis of cancer diagnosis and mortality data
and their associated covariates and risk factors.