VRMosaic: WEB access from within a virtual environment.

Virtual reality can aid in designing large and complex
structures such as ships, skyscrapers, factories, and aircraft. But
before VR can realize this potential, we need to solve a number of
problems. One of these problems: the user's need to see and interact
with non-geometric information is examined. Our VR environment,
RealEyes, can display large-scale and detailed geometry at reasonable
frame rates (>20 Hz) allowing a user to see and navigate within a design
from a first person perspective. However, much (if not most) of the
information associated with a particular design has no geometric
representation. This includes information such as schematics of
electrical, hydraulic, and plumbing systems; information describing
materials or processes; and descriptive (textual) information of other
types. Many researchers have developed a wealth of techniques for
presenting such data on flat-screen displays, but until recently, we
have not had a means for naturally displaying such information within a
VR environment. To make non-geometric data more available, we have
implemented a version of Mosaic that functions within a fully immersive
VR system. Our system, VRMosaic, allows a user of VR to access and
display most of the data available using flat screen Mosaic. Moreover,
we have made it extensible to allow for the seamless integration of
specialized forms of data and interaction. This paper describes how we
implemented VRMosaic using a VR-capable version of Interviews, It also
describes some Mosaic-like uses of that system and some
"non-Mosaic-like" extensions.