Interactive hierarchical dimension ordering, spacing and filtering for exploration of high dimensional datasets.

Large number of dimensions not only cause clutter in
multi-dimensional visualizations, but also make it difficult for users
to navigate the data space. Effective dimension management, such as
dimension ordering, spacing and filtering, is critical for visual
exploration of such datasets. Dimension ordering and spacing explicitly
reveal dimension relationships in arrangement-sensitive multidimensional
visualization techniques, such as parallel coordinates, star glyphs, and
pixel-oriented techniques. They facilitate the visual discovery of
patterns within the data. Dimension filtering hides some of the
dimensions to reduce clutter while preserving the major information of
the dataset. In this paper, we propose an interactive hierarchical
dimension ordering, spacing and filtering approach, called DOSFA. DOSFA
is based on dimension hierarchies derived from similarities among
dimensions. It is scalable multi-resolution approach making dimensional
management a tractable task. On the one hand, it automatically generates
default settings for dimension ordering, spacing and filtering. On the
other hand, it allows users to efficiently control all aspects of this
dimension management process via visual interaction tools for dimension
hierarchy manipulation. A case study visualizing a dataset containing
over 200 dimensions reveals high dimensional visualization
techniques.