How Information Visualization Novices Construct Visualizations.

It remains challenging for information visualization novices to
rapidly construct visualizations during exploratory data analysis. We
conducted an exploratory laboratory study in which information
visualization novices explored fictitious sales data by communicating
visualization specifications to a human mediator, who rapidly
constructed the visualizations using commercial visualization
software. We found that three activities were central to the iterative
visualization construction process: data attribute selection, visual
template selection, and visual mapping specification. The major
barriers faced by the participants were translating questions into
data attributes, designing visual mappings, and interpreting the
visualizations. Partial specification was common, and the participants
used simple heuristics and preferred visualizations they were already
familiar with, such as bar, line and pie charts. We derived abstract
models from our observations that describe barriers in the data
exploration process and uncovered how information visualization
novices think about visualization specifications. Our findings support
the need for tools that suggest potential visualizations and support
iterative refinement, that provide explanations and help with
learning, and that are tightly integrated into tool support for the
overall visual analytics process.