Visualizing the global topology of the MBone.

We present a case study of visualizing the global topology of
the Internet MBone. The MBone is the Internet's multicast backbone.
Multicast is the most efficient way of distributing data from one sender
to multiple receivers with minimal packet duplication. Developed and
initially deployed by researchers within the Internet community, the
MBone has been extremely popular for efficient transmission across the
Internet of real-time video and audio streams such as conferences,
meetings, congressional sessions, and NASA shuttle launches. The MBone,
like the Internet itself grew exponentially with no central authority.
The resulting suboptimal topology is of growing concern to network
providers and the multicast research community. We create a geographic
representation of the tunnel structure as arcs on a globe by resolving
the latitude and longitude of MBone routers. The interactive 3D maps
permit an immediate understanding of the global structure unavailable
from the data in its original form as lines of text with only hostnames
and IP addresses. Data visualization techniques such as grouping and
thresholding allow further analysis of specific aspects of the MBone
topology. We distribute the interactive 3D maps through the World-Wide
Web using the VRML file format thus allowing network maintainers
throughout the world to analyze the structure move effectively than
would be possible with still pictures or pre-made videos