Multidimensional data dissection using attribute relationship graphs.

Visual exploration and analysis is a process of discovering and
dissecting the abundant and complex attribute relationships that
pervade multidimensional data. Recent research has identified and
characterized patterns of multiple coordinated views, such as
cross-filtered views, in which rapid sequences of simple interactions
can be used to express queries on subsets of attribute values. In
visualizations designed around these patterns, for the most part,
distinct views serve to visually isolate each attribute from the
others. Although the brush-and-click simplicity of visual isolation
facilitates discovery of many-to-many relationships between
attributes, dissecting these relationships into more fine-grained
one-to-many relationships is interactively tedious and, worse,
visually fragmented over prolonged sequences of queries. This paper
describes: (1) a method for interactively dissecting multidimensional
data by iteratively slicing and manipulating a multigraph
representation of data values and value co-occurrences; and (2) design
strategies for extending the construction of coordinated multiple view
interfaces for dissection as well as discovery of attribute
relationships in multidimensional data sets. Using examples from
different domains, we describe how attribute relationship graphs can
be combined with cross-filtered views, modularized for reuse across
designs, and integrated into broader visual analysis tools. The
exploratory and analytic utility of these examples suggests that an
attribute relationship graph would be a useful addition to a wide
variety of visual analysis tools.